JSON Schema in summaries #1045 (#1093)
radiantearth/stac-spec: collection-spec/collection-spec.md

build tailored user interfaces for querying the data, by presenting the potential values that are available.
Summaries should summarize all values in every Item underneath the collection, including in any nested sub-Catalogs.

A summary for a field can be specified in three ways:

1. A set of all distinct values in an array: The set of values must contain at least one element and it is strongly recommended to list all values.
   If the field summarizes an array (e.g. [`instruments`](../item-spec/common-metadata.md#instrument)),
   the field's array elements of each Item must be merged to a single array with unique elements.
2. A Range in a [Range Object](#range-object): Statistics by default only specify the range (minimum and maximum values),
   but can optionally be accompanied by additional statistical values.
   The range specified by the `minimum` and `maximum` properties can specify the potential range of values,

>    but it is recommended to be as precise as possible.

Reviewer: If I'm reading correctly, should have the 3rd way, describing the JSON Schema (and perhaps linking to the below paragraph on the JSON Schema summary)

| type        | string    | [Media type](../item-spec/item-spec.md#asset-media-type) of the asset. See the [common media types](../best-practices.md#common-media-types-in-stac) in the best practice doc for commonly used asset types. |
| roles       | \[string] | The [semantic roles](../item-spec/item-spec.md#asset-role-types) of the asset, similar to the use of `rel` in links. |

### Range Object

> For summaries with a lot of continuous values, statistics can be added.

Author: ```suggestion
For summaries that would normally consist of a lot of continuous values, statistics can be added instead.
```

| minimum    | number\|string | **REQUIRED.** Minimum value. |
| maximum    | number\|string | **REQUIRED.** Maximum value. |

### JSON Schema Object

For a full understanding of the summarized field, a JSON Schema can be added for each summarized field.
This allows very fine-grained information for each field and each value as JSON Schema is also extensible.
Each schema must be valid against all corresponding values available for the property in the sub-Items.

It is recommended to use [JSON Schema draft-07](https://json-schema.org/specification-links.html#draft-7)
to align with the JSON Schemas provided by STAC. Empty schemas are not allowed.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

For an introduction to JSON Schema, see "[Learn JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/learn/)".

```
